# osteocyte
This directory includes functions and scripts for analysis of image data of 
bone cells. Most data inputs are .czi or .tif files of fluorescently labeled
cells generated by a confocal laser scanning microscope. Outputs include 
labeled .tif files and measurements that are appended to spreadsheet files.

volComb = createOverlay(volume, volOver, transparency) takes a grayscale 
volume (volume) and a binary volume (volOver) and outputs a truecolor 
volume where the binary volume is green. if sent to sliceViewer, this 
shows the grayscale volume with the binary volume as a transparent 
green overlay to check that the binary volume was created correctly. 
also takes optional variable transparency that indicates how 
transparent (0) or opaque (1) the overlay is.

volComb = createOverlayRGB(volume, volOverR, volOverG, ...
    volOverB, darken, trans)
Takes a grayscale volume (volume) and a binary volume (volOver) and
outputs a truecolor volume (colors are in the 4th dimension), where the
binary volume is in green. Can also take an optional transparency value,
that determines how transparent (0) or opaque (1) the green is.

[x1, x2, y1, y2] = getCropXY(volume, figHandle)
Given an input volume, ask the user for the cropping region by looking at
the top and bottom slices. Ouputs the x and y coordinates of the cropping
region. Optional input for figure handle. 

[z1, z2] = getCropZ(volume, figHandle)
Given an input volume, ask the user whether the number of slices should
be cropped by allowing the user to look at the stack of slices. Ouputs 
the start and end slice numbers of the cropping region. Optional input 
for figure handle.

[num_top, num_mid, num_bot, L] = getLacunarCounts(volume)
Given a binary volume, get all the connected objects. Output the number
of objects in the top third of the image (num_top), middle third of the
image (num_mid), and bottom third of the image (num_bot). Output a labeled
volume (L) with top cells labeled 1, middle cells 2, and bottom cells 3. 

[maxVers, theFileName] = getMaxFileVers(theDir, nameFormat)
Given a directory the format of the file name of interest, gets the 
maximum version number. Assumes version is in the format "_v\d+_"
in the file name. Outpus the version number and the full file name.

out = getMetadata(czi, cfilefull)
Given an open Bio-Format file, outputs key metadata in the order and 
format required by the database. Must have Bio-Formats installed. 

rotation = getRotation(image, figHandle)
Given an image, display it and ask the user whether rotation is needed,
and how much, until the user is satisfied with the figure. Optional
arguement figureHandle allows control over figure output.

todayStr = getTodayStr()
Outputs today's date in the char format 'yyyyMMdd'.

osteocyteLacunarAnalysis takes a set of .tif stack(s) and returns the 
number of osteocytes in the top, middle, and bottom sections of the volume
in an excel sheet and a labeled volume.

osteocyteLacunarProcessing takes in the directory where the processing data is 
held, and .czi file(s). It loads those volumes, rotates and crops them as directed
by the user, and outputs them into the directory. It also outputs a new
table with the processing summary, including rotations applied, image 
size, crop locations, and input / output file names.

osteocyteMetadataCollection takes one or more .czi files requested from the 
user. Checks whether they are in the metadata database; if not, adds them 
and creates a new version of the data base.
Must have Bio-Formats installed. Put it in the toolbox folder and then
use the pathtool to ensure it is included.
https://docs.openmicroscopy.org/bio-formats/6.1.0/developers/matlab-dev.html

randomRename() asks the user for an input directory and an output 
directory. it then generates a random permutation of the vector of 
numbers from 1 to n, where n is the number of files. it then copies 
the files from the old directory to the new directory while naming 
them with the random number, padded with zeros in the front. it also
creates a file 'translation.txt' in the output directory that lists 
the old file names with the number they were assigned in the output
directory.

tif_stack = readMultipageTif(tif_file)
Given a multipage tif file (tif_file), read it and output the stack as a
3D volume (tif_stack).

writeMultipageTif(volIn, filename)
Takes in a volume (volIn) and saves it as a multipage tif in a file
called filename. Assumes a grayscale volume if ndims(volIn) = 3, and a
truecolor volume if ndims(volIn) = 4. (Does not currently handle
indexed color volumes).
  
writeNewTable(oldTable, newTable, thisDir, thisFileName, thisVersNum)
Takes the old table (oldTable) and new table (newTable) and compares
their row number. If different, outputs a new table in the given
directory (thisDir) with the filename given by thisFileName plus the
version number given by thisVersNum, and the date (ex:
thisFileName-v01-20200910.xls).
